Workout Type Definitions
AR (Active Recovery) 
Terrain: flat, Gearing: low.
Super-easy ride. Float the pedals Maintain heart rate and muscular effort at a sub-zone 1 level. Spin the legs to maximize circulation with minimal effort.

CA (Cadence) 
Terrain: varied, Gearing: low (slightly under-geared).
Maintain cadence >100 rpm on flat terrain, >80 rpm climbing. Use higher cadence (lower force) to achieve desired HR zones.

CL (Climbing) 
Terrain: hills, Gearing: low, Cadence: ~75-90 rpm.

CS (Climbing Speed) 
Terrain: gradual hill, Cadence: >80 rpm
Seated accelerations to maximum speed. Stay in the saddle. HR not relevant to guide efforts.

CT (Cross-Train)

ER (Endurance Ride) 
Terrain: varied, Cadence: 75-90 rpm climbing, 90-110 rpm flat terrain.

LS (Leg Speed) 
Terrain: flat, Gearing: low, Cadence: max.
Maximum cadence possible while maintaining good form & stability in the saddle.

MB (Mountain Bike) 
Terrain: hills, Gearing: low, Cadence: ~70-90 rpm.

OO (On/Off) 
Terrain: flat or climbs, Gearing: as necessary, Cadence: moderate to high.
Continuous for noted time. High end efforts are sustained rather than continuous accelerations, recovery is as noted (usually z2).

RC (Race)

RP (Race Prep) 
Terrain: flat, Gearing: low, Cadence: >100 rpm.
Easy spin with some zone 1. In last hour do 2 short (20-30sec) zone 4 efforts. Allow sufficient cool down to flush the legs well.

RS (Resistance/Force) 
Terrain: gradual climb, Gearing: very high (over-geared), Cadence: 50-60 rpm
Focus on circular force application around the entire pedal stroke - BIG gear, LOW cadence, HIGH force.

RD (Rest Day)

SL (Single Leg Pedaling) 
Terrain: flat or stationary trainer, Gearing: low to moderate, Cadence: varies.
Isolate pedaling with each leg, keeping nonworking leg unclipped from the pedal.

SPD (Speed) 
Terrain: flat, Gearing: moderate, Cadence: 100 rpm+.
From zone 2 tempo, seated acceleration to max speed. Shift up as necessary, stay in the saddle. HR not relevant to guide efforts.

SP (Sprints) 
Terrain: flat, Gearing: moderate to high, Cadence: >100 rpm.
Explosive effort out of the saddle to maximum speed. HR not relevant to guide efforts.

ST (Supra-Threshold) 
Terrain: short hill, Gearing: medium, Cadence: 75-90 rpm.
Peak effort for given interval. Heart rate is less important than the intensity of the efforts. HR not relevant to guide efforts.

TE (Tempo Endurance) 
Terrain: flat to rolling, Gearing: moderate, Cadence: ~90-110 rpm.

TR (Trainer)

TT (Time-Trial Bike)

WT (Weights)

OT (Other)